If you ask an English teacher to correct a task, then it is easy to count words.
This is the number that appears when you click on "word count" in your writing program.
In English, the word counting algorithm typically means that a word consists of series letters.
Each series separated by other types of characters ...
That's a word!
It is nice enough when you want to check that a style has a fairly suitable length,
but it will also count a lot of other things than words with -
And it doesn't answer our basic questions - What is a word really?
First, it is the issue of importance.
If you accept the definition of a word
as some letters surrounded by spaces,
then "xnopyt", "aaaaaajjjjjj" and "hrrkrkrkrwpfrbrbrbrblblblblblwhitoo'ap"
also words, even if they are completely meaningless.
You can't even expect dictionaries to define all "real words".
There are lots of words that people use daily but that have not been included in dictionaries ...
- okay, that word you probably don't use anymore in daily speech -
- but they obviously have an impact.
So, let's say a word is some sign surrounded by something else,
which expresses a meaning.
On paper it is not a bad definition.
I mean, it's not really a bad way to define English words when they're written down
But language is not just about writing language.
The definition - spacing around some letters - does not count contraction.
In daily English speaking, there are many more contractions,
than what you see in writing.
Depending on your dialect, "I'd-a" is as good as "I would have",
as in "I'd thought you'd known that".
Are there 3 words? 2 words? Only 1?
What about "I'm-a" as in "I'm-a let you finish".
There are several different ways to spell that phrase
and it replaces the 4 conventional words, "I am going to".
But in fact there is also a reasonable argument that "I'm-a" is not a contraction,
but that it is an independent word "imma".
Either way, be careful not to count the actual number of words.
And to make things much worse, the meaning and use of words change over time.
"Today" used to be with hyphen: "to-day", and pass it in two words: "to day".
When did it become one word rather than two?
What about "first class"? Does it become one word if you use hyphens?
You will find that people give two different answers: two-day is one word, first-class is two words.
It is only when it comes to English. What about synthetic languages,
where in extreme cases can one put together whole sentences in one long series of characters and sounds?
Is it still just one word?
And more important is the question: is it important?
Word Counting is a handy tool to keep an eye on one's progress in major writing work
no matter how you precisely define a word,
then it is obviously a great achievement to write 50,000 consecutive words.
But if you look more closely at the language as a system,
so it makes more sense to ignore words, and rather look at morphems and phrases.
Words are probably the most convenient way to divide English sentences,
But linguists can't actually use it for so much.
Incidentally, we also have the question that has not yet been answered:
are the words of emoticons or emoji?
They are symbols that express a meaning
sometimes quite literally encircled by spaces, sometimes to modify a sentence.
So if I had to finish a written version of this with a smiley,
should it count as a word?
:-)